- Providing authentication for an application
is only half the battle.
You also need to provide the rules
around what that person can access.
This is called authorization, and faulty authorization
can lead to security defects that often
are hard to track down.
So let's start with the basics of what issues exist
around authorization.
Often, defects arise in this arena
because we either have access control lists in place,
but they aren't applied correctly,
or they simply haven't been applied.
In either case, a user could get access to resources
or data that he or she shouldn't have access to.
Consider the use case where your site has a user portion
and an administrator portion.
If you don't have solid access control lists,
your users could access your admin section of your site.
This obviously give them more control
that they should ever have access to.
Now consider that in your admin site,
you can see all the demographic and personal details
of your customers.
Imagine not only the negative publicity
your application would receive, but even more importantly,
your customers could potentially
have their identities stolen.
And your site would be responsible.
A couple of rules to consider when doing authorization.
First off, you should always do authorization checks
server-side in a client-server program,
and never client-side only.
If a user impersonates the client side,
and you don't check rules server-side,
you will potentially expose protected transactions.
In addition, all permission state changes
should require logging out, and logging back in.
Even your privileged users should have ACLs in place,
and not be able to change them in a single session.
Often for troubleshooting and support,
we put impersonation models in place.
But they should only be part of authentication,
and the session should be static when it comes
to permission models, to help protect from internal threats.
Furthermore, each transaction should check
the authorization of the user.
It should not simply be checked once.
This becomes even more critical in microservices
architectures where the systems are distributed.
You should only serve data, or execute transactions,
if the principle has the authority to do so.
So mitigations for these risks are twofold.
First and foremost, you need good controls in place
around how you review, and control access
within your application.
Using code reviews, design reviews,
and even acceptance criteria can help you
evaluate authorization during development.
This will not only help you prevent issues,
but it will also help you understand
the authorization flows that exist.
In addition to reviewing code,
you should focus on documenting and discussing
changes to access control lists on a regular basis.
The second mitigation, and maybe even more effective,
is good testing of your ACLs on every build.
You should leverage role-based users in your test suites,
and look at every transaction from both the positive
and the negative perspective for every role.
Essentially, you're building a matrix
to check all of your access controls.
Spend some time in processes and testing,
to help prevent these security risks
from becoming an issue for you.